WinAuth topic updates (#12554)
aspnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/security/authentication/windowsauth.md

Windows Authentication relies on the operating system to authenticate users of ASP.NET Core apps. You can use Windows Authentication when your server runs on a corporate network using Active Directory domain identities or Windows accounts to identify users. Windows Authentication is best suited to intranet environments where users, client apps, and web servers belong to the same Windows domain.

## Launch settings (debugger)

> Configuration for launch settings only affects the *Properties/launchSettings.json* file and doesn't configure the IIS or HTTP.sys server for Windows Authentication. Configuration of the server is explained in the [Enable authentication services for IIS or HTTP.sys](#authentication-services-for-iis-or-httpsys) section.

Reviewer: So what does it affect? (IIS Express)

> Configuration for launch settings only affects the *Properties/launchSettings.json* file and doesn't configure the IIS or HTTP.sys server for Windows Authentication. Configuration of the server is explained in the [Enable authentication services for IIS or HTTP.sys](#authentication-services-for-iis-or-httpsys) section later in this article.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Configuration for launch settings only affects the *Properties/launchSettings.json* file and doesn't configure the IIS or HTTP.sys server for Windows Authentication. Configuration of the server is explained in the [Enable authentication services for IIS or HTTP.sys](#authentication-services-for-iis-or-httpsys) section.
```

1. Save and close the property page.

Alternatively, the properties can be configured in the `iisSettings` node of the *launchSettings.json* file:

[!code-json[](windowsauth/sample_snapshot/launchSettings.json?highlight=2-3)]

# [Visual Studio Code / .NET Core CLI](#tab/visual-studio-code+netcore-cli)

**New project**

Execute the [dotnet new](/dotnet/core/tools/dotnet-new) command with the `webapp` argument (ASP.NET Core Web App) and `--auth Windows` switch:

```console
dotnet new webapp --auth Windows
```

**Existing project**

Update the `iisSettings` node of the *launchSettings.json* file:

[!code-json[](windowsauth/sample_snapshot/launchSettings.json?highlight=2-3)]

---

When modifying an existing project, confirm that the project file includes a package reference for the [Microsoft.AspNetCore.App metapackage](xref:fundamentals/metapackage-app) **or** the [Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authentication](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authentication/) NuGet package.

## Authentication services for IIS or HTTP.sys

Depending on the hosting scenario, follow the guidance in **either** the [IIS](#iis) section **or** [HTTP.sys](#httpsys) section.

> ### IIS

Reviewer: And Express?
In-proc and out-of-proc?

1. Save and close the property page.

Alternatively, the properties can be configured in the `iisSettings` node of the *launchSettings.json* file:

[!code-json[](windowsauth/sample_snapshot/launchSettings.json?highlight=2-3)]

# [Visual Studio Code / .NET Core CLI](#tab/visual-studio-code+netcore-cli)

**New project**

Execute the [dotnet new](/dotnet/core/tools/dotnet-new) command with the `webapp` argument (ASP.NET Core Web App) and `--auth Windows` switch:

```console
dotnet new webapp --auth Windows
```

**Existing project**

Update the `iisSettings` node of the *launchSettings.json* file:

[!code-json[](windowsauth/sample_snapshot/launchSettings.json?highlight=2-3)]

---

When modifying an existing project, confirm that the project file includes a package reference for the [Microsoft.AspNetCore.App metapackage](xref:fundamentals/metapackage-app) **or** the [Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authentication](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authentication/) NuGet package.

## Authentication services for IIS or HTTP.sys

Depending on the hosting scenario, follow the guidance in **either** the [IIS](#iis) section **or** [HTTP.sys](#httpsys) section.

### IIS

> Add authentication services to the service collection with <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection.AuthenticationServiceCollectionExtensions.AddAuthentication*> in `Startup.ConfigureServices`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Add authentication services by invoking <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection.AuthenticationServiceCollectionExtensions.AddAuthentication*> in `Startup.ConfigureServices`:
```

The ASP.NET Core Module is configured to forward the Windows Authentication token to the app by default. For more information, see [ASP.NET Core Module configuration reference: Attributes of the aspNetCore element](xref:host-and-deploy/aspnet-core-module#attributes-of-the-aspnetcore-element).

Use **either** of the following approaches:

* **Before publishing and deploying the project,** add the following *web.config* file to the project root:

  [!code-xml[](windowsauth/sample_snapshot/web_2.config)]

>   When the project is published by the SDK (without the `<IsTransformWebConfigDisabled>` property set to `true` in the project file), the published *web.config* file includes the `<location><system.webServer><security><authentication>` section. For more information on the `<IsTransformWebConfigDisabled>` property, see <xref:host-and-deploy/iis/index#webconfig-file>.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  When the project is published by the .NET Core SDK (without the `<IsTransformWebConfigDisabled>` property set to `true` in the project file), the published *web.config* file includes the `<location><system.webServer><security><authentication>` section. For more information on the `<IsTransformWebConfigDisabled>` property, see <xref:host-and-deploy/iis/index#webconfig-file>.
```

* **After publishing and deploying the project,** perform server-side configuration with the IIS Manager:

  1. In IIS Manager, select the IIS site under the **Sites** node of the **Connections** sidebar.
  1. Double-click **Authentication** in the **IIS** area.
  1. Select **Anonymous Authentication**. Select **Disable** in the **Actions** sidebar.
  1. Select **Windows Authentication**. Select **Enable** in the **Actions** sidebar.

  When these actions are taken, IIS Manager modifies the app's *web.config* file. A `<system.webServer><security><authentication>` node is added with updated settings for `anonymousAuthentication` and `windowsAuthentication`:

  [!code-xml[](windowsauth/sample_snapshot/web_1.config?highlight=4-5)]

>   The `<system.webServer>` section added to the *web.config* file by IIS Manager is outside of the app's `<location>` section added by the .NET Core SDK when the app is published. Because the section is added outside of the `<location>` node, the settings are inherited by any [sub-apps](xref:host-and-deploy/iis/index#sub-applications) to the current app. To prevent inheritance, move the added `<security>` section inside of the `<location><system.webServer>` section that the SDK provided.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  The `<system.webServer>` section added to the *web.config* file by IIS Manager is outside of the app's `<location>` section added by the .NET Core SDK when the app is published. Because the section is added outside of the `<location>` node, the settings are inherited by any [sub-apps](xref:host-and-deploy/iis/index#sub-applications) to the current app. To prevent inheritance, move the added `<security>` section inside of the `<location><system.webServer>` section that the .NET Core SDK provided.
```

  When IIS Manager is used to add the IIS configuration, it only affects the app's *web.config* file on the server. A subsequent deployment of the app may overwrite the settings on the server if the server's copy of *web.config* is replaced by the project's *web.config* file. Use **either** of the following approaches to manage the settings:

  * Use IIS Manager to reset the settings in the *web.config* file after the file is overwritten on deployment.
  * Add a *web.config file* to the app locally with the settings.

### HTTP.sys

Although [Kestrel](xref:fundamentals/servers/kestrel) doesn't support Windows Authentication, you can use [HTTP.sys](xref:fundamentals/servers/httpsys) to support self-hosted scenarios on Windows.

> Add authentication services to the service collection with <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection.AuthenticationServiceCollectionExtensions.AddAuthentication*> in `Startup.ConfigureServices`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Add authentication services by invoking <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection.AuthenticationServiceCollectionExtensions.AddAuthentication*> in `Startup.ConfigureServices`:
```
